doc/src/sphinx/util-stats/faq.rst, before:

FAQ
===

Why are util-stats in the com.twitter.finagle.stats package?
------------------------------------------------------------
This is a historical artifact that reflects how the code was
originally written as part of `Finagle <https://twitter.github.io/finagle/>`_
but turned out to not actually depend on anything Finagle-specific.
The code was moved to `util <https://twitter.github.io/util/>`_
in order to allow usage without depending on finagle-core.
To ease the transition, the package namespace was left as is.

Why were there three(!) different implementations?
-------------------------------------------------
This is somewhat historical, as early on in Twitter, Commons Stats
was created for Java developers and Ostrich was created for Scala developers.
Code initially was written directly to the implementations and there were
(and still are) some subtle differences in their behavior.
``StatsReceiver`` was written in order to bridge the gap between the
two implementations. `finagle-stats` was written quite a bit later in order to
improve upon both of these implementations in terms of
allocation efficiency and histogram precision.

Why migrate to finagle-stats?
-------------------------------
The `finagle-stats` library is designed to replace the other two libraries
formerly supported by Twitter: Ostrich and Commons Stats. The comparison table below
illustrates the advantages of `finagle-stats` over the older libraries.

+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+
|                              | Commons Stats | Ostrich  | finagle-stats   |
+==============================+===============+==========+=================+
| Allocations per `Stat.add`   | 16 bytes      | 0 bytes  | 0 bytes         |
+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+
| Highest histogram resolution | p99           | p9999    | p9999           |
+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+
| Sampling error               | N/A           |  ±5%     | ±0.5%           |
+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+

Commit message:

util: Add FAQ entry for not having a metrics implementation
Summary: Problem / Solution

It may not be obvious to users why their application is reporting
metrics to a `NullStatsReceiver`. This adds a FAQ entry redirecting
them to the section of the user guide explaining how to pick an
implementation.

JIRA Issues: csl-3663

Differential Revision: https://phabricator.twitter.biz/D82020

doc/src/sphinx/util-stats/faq.rst, after:

FAQ
===

Why are util-stats in the com.twitter.finagle.stats package?
------------------------------------------------------------
This is a historical artifact that reflects how the code was
originally written as part of `Finagle <https://twitter.github.io/finagle/>`_
but turned out to not actually depend on anything Finagle-specific.
The code was moved to `util <https://twitter.github.io/util/>`_
in order to allow usage without depending on finagle-core.
To ease the transition, the package namespace was left as is.

Why were there three(!) different implementations?
--------------------------------------------------
This is somewhat historical, as early on in Twitter, Commons Stats
was created for Java developers and Ostrich was created for Scala developers.
Code initially was written directly to the implementations and there were
(and still are) some subtle differences in their behavior.
``StatsReceiver`` was written in order to bridge the gap between the
two implementations. `finagle-stats` was written quite a bit later in order to
improve upon both of these implementations in terms of
allocation efficiency and histogram precision.

Why is `NullStatsReceiver` being used?
--------------------------------------
`NullStatsReceiver` is used when no metrics implementation is found on the classpath.
The section on :ref:`choosing the stats implementation <choosing_impl>` covers how to
pick an implementation for your application. Twitter runs its production
services with `finagle-stats` and it is available on
`Github <https://github.com/twitter/finagle/tree/master/finagle-stats>`_
and `Maven Central <https://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cfinagle-stats>`_.

Why migrate to finagle-stats?
-----------------------------
The `finagle-stats` library is designed to replace the other two libraries
formerly supported by Twitter: Ostrich and Commons Stats. The comparison table below
illustrates the advantages of `finagle-stats` over the older libraries.

+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+
|                              | Commons Stats | Ostrich  | finagle-stats   |
+==============================+===============+==========+=================+
| Allocations per `Stat.add`   | 16 bytes      | 0 bytes  | 0 bytes         |
+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+
| Highest histogram resolution | p99           | p9999    | p9999           |
+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+
| Sampling error               | N/A           |  ±5%     | ±0.5%           |
+------------------------------+---------------+----------+-----------------+
